Krastavac Bacan is from
Plastenik, instead of the market.
Bacan is made for our buyers.
There are other vegetables on
the unseen hills.
Since I mainly produce paprika,
I mostly sell paprika.
Manufacturers from the surrounding
area asked if the vegetables
were thrown away because of
the low retail prices.
The first class costed 80
cents, the second costed 40
cents, which would give us a
quarter of the price.
At that price, it is
literally impossible to produce
paprika, let alone harvest it.
We, with 20 or 25 cents,
can't bargain with anyone.
Pick up a ton of cucumbers for 200 euros.
So, where's the water?
Where's the food?
Where are the workers?
Where are we?
The income and expenses explain it all.
The harvest is almost equal to
that of an engineer.
The total price does not cover it.
So far, I have thrown 8 to 10 tons.
I felt like I was crying.
The total prices have now
grown, so the throwing has stopped.
But the question is until
when, because the market is not stable.
We are in front of the
area where in the spring the
cabbage grew, which we unfortunately
had to plow.
The offered price was 17 cents,
on which we could not
do our consumption production.
Desperate farmers are asking
for the protection of the state.
I, as a producer, can't lose half of it,
and someone else has to get
rich with my labor and take a euro more.
We don't blame the buyers,
who offer us very low prices,
because it is clear to us
that everyone will buy where it is cheaper.
But in order to
protect domestic production, it
is necessary to introduce, as far
as I know, from May 1st to October 1st,
that is, to prohibit
importation, except for the culture,
which is insufficient for us.
The import of food jumped by 11%.
We pay only 270 million
euros for vegetables.
Similarly, domestic food is thrown away.
To get to the point where
that tourist eats our domestic food,
and not imported from
Ukraine, Albania, Macedonia and so on.
Third countries are more
competitive because they pay
cheaper labor and do not
use expensive protective equipment
that are due to be used
by the member countries.
And all this food, the
vegetables could not even donate.
They asked, they say, to pay the tax first.